I'm attaching a version of the system which has a fairly
well-commented version of classes.pl, which is basically the
grammatical framework that we're using. Pretty much the whole of the
grammar is in there. So what you need to do is read through that and
try to get as good a grip on it as you can.

Remember: to reload the grammar, do

| ?- setup(allwords).

To test what it does with an example sentence, do

| ?- parseAll('the pudding I thought was disgusting had been made three days before').

That will show you *all* the interpretations that the grammar allows
for a given text, which is what you want to see when you're developing
a grammar, because if you only see the first one you may think you've
nailed it when actually there are loads of things happening that you
hadn't thought of.

You can see all the created edges with

| ?- showAllEdges.

With complicated sentences like the one above, that can produce a
daunting amount of stuff, so if things go wrong the best strategy is
to try simpler versions of the thing you're trying to do.

If you had two edges that you thought should combine, with one as an
argument of the other, but they haven't, then doing

| ?- whyNot(i3, i4).

will show you the differences between i4 and the argument that i3 is
expecting. If you expected i3 to act as a modifier on i4, then

| ?- whyNotModify(i3, i4).

will show you the differences between i4 and what i3 expected as a
target. 

If you just want to look at the properties that some edge has then

| ?- fpretty(i3).

is the best thing to use. Remember that if you do that then you'll see
all the things that are waiting to happen when various elements of i3
become known. If you don't want to see all that (which you usually
won't) then do

| ?- \+ \+ fpretty(i3).

This version does simple determiners as discussed the other day. I
haven't fixed it so that it does things like "most of the cats", let
alone "at least six cats". So that's an exercise for the reader
(i.e. you). Doing "most of the cats" will be easier than "at least six
cats", and we need to bear in mind that we will also need to do "at
least six of the cats", so the way we do it will have to be open to
extension.

There is a second exercise for the reader, which is to add
ditransitive verbs. I'd start with that, because you can model them
fairly straightforwardly on transitive ones. You'll need to add two
entries to cover ditransitives, one for cases where we just have two
NP arguments ("he gave her a present", "he made her a cake") and one
for cases where the second NP is case-marked by a preposition ("he
gave it to his mother", "he made it for his sister"). Useful clue: you
can describe a case-marked NP by saying e.g.

    X <> [np, casemarked(to)]

If you get that to work, then you could try to do "most of the cats":
the key here is that the argument to the determiner will be a
case-marked NP, marked by "of", instead of just a noun.

Don't worry if you get stuck. The way to learn this stuff is by
trying, and then trying again, and then asking me. Between now and 5
January you're doing try and then try again. 

